The Company transports people and cargo through its mainline and regional operations. With key global aviation rights in North America, Asia-Pacific,
Europe, Middle East and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and its regional carriers,
operates more than 4,500 flights a day to 339 airports across five continents from the Company’s hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport (“Newark”),
Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston Bush”),
Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington
Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”).
All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination”
traffic. The hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if
each route were served directly. The hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed under
Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest alliance network.
Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), can be
found in Note 17 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.


The Company transports people and cargo through its mainline and regional operations. With key global aviation rights in North America, Asia-
Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and its regional
carriers, operates more than 4,500 flights a day to 338 airports across five continents, with hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport (“Newark”),
Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston
Bush”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and
Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”).
All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination”
traffic. The hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service
than if each route were served directly. The hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed
under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest alliance network.
Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic region, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”),
can be found in Note 15 to the financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.


The Company transports people and cargo throughout North America and to destinations in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. UAL, through
United and its regional carriers, operates more than 4,800 flights a day to 353 airports across five continents, with hubs at Newark Liberty International
Airport ("Newark"), Chicago O'Hare International Airport ("Chicago O'Hare"), Denver International Airport ("Denver"), George Bush Intercontinental Airport
("Houston Bush"), Los Angeles International Airport ("LAX"), A.B. Won Pat International Airport ("Guam"), San Francisco International Airport ("SFO") and
Washington Dulles International Airport ("Washington Dulles").
All of the Company's domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of "origin and destination"
traffic. The hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if
each route were served directly. The hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited
number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world's largest alliance network.



The Company transports people and cargo throughout North America and to destinations in Asia, Europe, Africa, the Pacific, the Middle East and Latin
America. UAL, through United and its regional carriers, operates across six continents, with hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport ("Newark"),
Chicago O'Hare International Airport ("Chicago O'Hare"), Denver International Airport ("Denver"), George Bush Intercontinental Airport ("Houston
Bush"), Los Angeles International Airport ("LAX"), A.B. Won Pat International Airport ("Guam"), San Francisco International Airport ("SFO") and
Washington Dulles International Airport ("Washington Dulles").
All of the Company's domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of "origin and destination"
traffic. The hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if
each route were served directly. The hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited
number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world's largest alliance network.
The Company began experiencing a significant decline in passenger demand related to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) during the first quarter of 2020.
The full extent of the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on the Company's longer-term operational and financial performance will depend on future
developments, including those outside our control related to the efficacy and speed of vaccination programs in curbing the spread of the virus, the
introduction and spread of new variants of the virus which may be resistant to currently approved vaccines, passenger testing requirements, mask mandates
or other restrictions on travel, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with certainty. In response to decreased demand, the Company cut,
relative to 2019 capacity, approximately 57% of its scheduled capacity for 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company expects scheduled capacity to be
down at least 51% versus the first quarter of 2019. The Company plans to continue to proactively evaluate and cancel flights on a rolling 60-day basis until
it sees signs of a recovery in demand and expects demand to remain suppressed, relative to 2019 levels, until vaccines for COVID-19 are widely distributed
and are effective in curbing the spread of the virus. In addition, the Company does not currently expect the recovery from COVID-19 to follow a linear path. As such, the Company's
actual flown capacity may differ materially from its currently scheduled capacity.
